#summary Get up and running with the ZipMyURL PHP API.

= Introduction =
Quick Start Guide (PHP)

= Details =

N.B. This PHP code is for PHP 5+ (it won't work on PHP 4). It's very easy to use and does all the hard work for you. Here is an example of using it!

{{{
// create a new ZipMyURL Object 
$zmu = new ZipMyURL();
	
// add some URL's (you can add just one, or as many as you like!) 
$zmu->addURL("http://www.nytimes.com/library/national/science/011800sci-space-nanobes.html");
$zmu->addURL("http://gizmodo.com/5016550/rfid-robotic-chair-follows-you-around-for-constant-seating");
	
//if you want to use your own keywords / tags then add them in, (optional) 
$zmu->addKeyword("technology");
$zmu->addKeyword("interesting");
$zmu->addKeyword("robotics");
$zmu->addKeyword("rfid");
	
// if you have an account with ZipMyURL and you want to automatically publish this zipped URL
//  directly to your account and any activated services you have on that account, then you can 
//  add in your username and password below. If you do enter your account details the connection will be made over SSL to keep it secure.
//
//	(if you do enter your username and password, your connection will be securely made over SSL)
$zmu->setUserName("my@username.here"); // optional
$zmu->setUserPassword("mypassword");   // optional 
	
// some other optional properties include: 
// $zmu->setCustomURL("myurl"); // this will set your URL to be http://zipmyurl.com/myurl [providing it's not already been used!]
// $zmu->setZipPassword("secret") // add a password to your zipped URL. [automatically marks it private]
// $zmu->setZipPrivate(true) // make the zip private
// $zmu->setZipRandom(true) // have the server select a random URL (if zipping more than one URL at a time)
	
// now lets create our zip!
if(!$zmu->zip()) {

	// whoops something went wrong.
	print("error: " . $zmu->getError());

} else {

	// Your zip was created! 
	print("zipped URL: " . $zmu->getZippedURL() . "\n");
	print("Original Size: " . $zmu->getZippedURLOriginalSize() . "\n");
	print("Zipped Size: " . $zmu->getZippedURLCompressedSize() . "\n");

}
}}}

And thats all there is to it!

- Dave <dave@quobix.com>